this is democracy now democracynow.org
the quarantine report I'm Amy Goodman
with Juan Gonzalez for the first time
this morning presumptive Democratic
presidential nominee Joe Biden has
responded to sexual assault allegations
against him on MSNBC's Morning Joe
breaking his silence after weeks of
mounting pressure to deny allegations
put forward by Tara Reid a former Biden
staffer who says he sexually assaulted
her in 1993 in a statement Friday
morning Biden said quote I want to
address allegations by a former staffer
that I engaged in misconduct 27 years
ago they aren't true this never happened
he said this is Biden speaking on MSNBC
just before we went to broadcast would
you please go on the record with the
American people did you sexually assault
Tara Reid no it is not true
I'm saying unequivocally it never never
happened it didn't it never happened do
you remember her do you remember any any
types of complaints that she might have
made I don't remember any type of
complaint she may have made it was 27
years ago and I don't remember and nor
does anyone else that I'm aware of and
the fact is that I don't remember I
don't remember any complaint ever having
been made have you or your campaign have
you reached out to her no I have not
reached out terrorists 27 years ago
there this never happened and when she
first made the claim we made it clear
that it never happened and
that's as simple as that Joe Biden was
being questioned by morning Joe's mika
brzezinski about his senatorial records
at the University of Delaware which are
sealed to the public and it's comments
during the Brett Kavanaugh Supreme Court
hearings in which he said for a woman to
come forward in the glaring lights of
focus nationally you've got to start off
with the presumption that at least the
essence of what she's talking about is
real unquote Joe Biden's denial comes as
two more people have come forward this
week to corroborate the account of Tara
Reid Business Insider reported earlier
this week that Reed's former neighbor
said the pair discussed the assault in
detail in the mid-1990s and that Tara
Reid described then-senator Biden
pushing her up against a wall and
digitally penetrating her a former
colleague who also knew Reid in the
mid-90s said she'd spoken of being
sexually harassed by her former boss in
Washington DC
Tara Reid first came forward with her
allegations in March she recounted the
incident on Democracy Now
a warning her description is graphic I
was approached by my supervisor she
handed me a gym bag and said hurry Joe
once you wants this so get it to him
he's meet you down towards the Capitol
and I went down the stairs and I don't
remember exactly where I was because
there's connections between the Russell
building and all of that and the
corridors but we were in a semi-private
location it wasn't a room it wasn't the
rest you know the Russell office
building it was I mean in the roads his
office it was reporters and I handed him
the gym bag and then he it was one as I
described fluid moment he was talking to
me and he said some things that I don't
recall and I was up against the wall and
he I remember the coldness of the wall
and I remember his hands underneath my
bus and underneath my skirt and his
fingers penetrating me as he was kissed
trying to kiss me and I was pulling away
and he pulled back and he said come on
man I heard you liked me but he was
angry it was like a tight voice and he
tended to smile when he was angry and he
isn't like the Uncle Joe like everybody
talks about now he was younger he was my
dad's age at that time I'm very strong
and he looked insulted and angry and I
remember feeling like I had done
something wrong when he said that
statement and then I was standing there
when he said he was still near me he
said pointed his finger and said you're
nothing to me they're nothing and he
walked away and I don't remember exactly
where I went after I think I went to the
restroom to clean up but I don't
remember precisely the next memory I
have a sitting one of the cold stairs
and the Russell building back stairs
where the big windows are and I remember
just my whole body shaking and I
remember knowing that knowing that I had
made him angry and that my career was
probably over sitting on those stairs
the reality hit me
the next thing I remember was that night
and be talking to my mom and she was
like you need to file a police report
it's a sexual assault and I didn't think
of it as sexual assault and I didn't
really understand and I was trying to
just get over the shock of it because I
looked up to him he was supposed to be a
champion of women and I was so thrilled
to be that office and so honored I
didn't it shattered my life and changed
the trajectory of my whole career in
life and I lost my job after I
complained and I was fired
that's former Biden staffer when he was
Senator Tara Reed speaking in a
democracy now TV radio broadcast
exclusive to see the full interview you
can go to democracynow.org we were
following up on a podcast interview done
by journalist Katie Halper many news
outlets were slow to report Tara Reid's
allegations but our story gained renewed
tension last weekend when archival video
emerged of Reid's mother anonymously
calling in to Larry King show on CNN in
1993 and making reference to what
happened to her daughter Tara hello I'm
wondering what a staffer would to do
besides go to the press in Washington
my daughter has just left there after
working for a prominent senator and
could not get through with her problems
at all and the only thing she could have
done was go to the press and she chose
not to do it out of respect for him or
she had a story to tell but out of
respect for the person she worked for
she didn't tell it Tara Reid has
confirmed the voice of the caller was
her mother who died in 2016
Joe Biden's campaign has denied Reid's
sexual assault claim calling her
allegation untrue all this comes as Joe
Biden has picked up several high-profile
endorsements this week including House
Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Congress member
privilege I apologize the Congressional
Progressive Caucus well for more we're
joined by the Business Insider reporter
rich McHugh
he's a former NBC News producer where he
worked with Ronan Farrow on the story of
Harvey Weinstein serial sexual assaults
rich McHugh's recent investigation
confirmed Tara Reid's accounts with two
people who knew her in the 1990s and
we're joined by one of those women Lynda
lacasa a former neighbor of Tara Reid
whose corroborated Reid's account and
she will be talking about that for the
first time in a broadcast interview rich
McHugh brought out the interview with
her in print and Business Insider rich
let's begin with you talk about this
story Joe Biden as we speak is saying
it's not true well I think that's not
unexpected you know for someone in his
position what I'll say is that when I
started reporting on this I go at every
story like this with extreme skepticism
I never actually wanted the report on
this story it was one of the survivors
in the Weinstein you know story that
I've worked with
and Massey came to me and said look can
you take a look at this and I said well
look we might not like what we find but
if everybody is okay with that I'll go
down this road and so the more that I've
gone down the road reporting it the more
corroborating voices I've found and when
I you know when she filed a police
report and then when she when I found
Linda you know Linda is someone that
struck me as entirely credible she's
like look I'm a lifelong Democrat I'm
voting for Biden regardless and this
happened so I I need to in good faith to
come forward and we can say that so you
know will we ever know that it's that
there's a hundred percent truth that
this happened or did not happen I don't
think so but you know this needs to be
continued to be reported out I know this
morning the Joe Biden said he's calling
on the National Archives to to release
his paper so we spoke to the National
Archives and said look there is some
question about Tara Reed filing a
complaint outside of this office outside
of the Biden office if if that if you
had that would that would would that
live there and they told us that no they
have no records from the I believe it's
called the Fair Employment Practices
Office and so that leads us to believe
that there might be some of those papers
within the University of Delaware and
his senatorial papers which is why we're
calling on them to open them so let's go
to Joe Biden speaking today Joe Biden
speaking today on MSNBC talking about
that issue of the University of Delaware
archives he was being questioned by the
President or anybody else I'm just
asking why not do a search for Tara
Reid's name in the University of
Delaware records look I mean who does
that search
the University of Delaware
perhaps you set up a commission that can
do it I don't know whatever is the
fairest way to create the most
transparency well this is look mica
she said she filed a report she has her
employment records still she said she
filed a report with the only office that
would have a report in the United States
Senate at the time if the report was
ever filed it was filed there period
rich McHugh your quick comment from
speaking to the National Archives they
say no they would not have that report
that it would it would not be within the
National Archives
let's bring in Linda Lacoste's the
former neighbor of Tara Reid who's
accused Democratic presidential
candidate Joe Biden of sexual assault
Tara Reid accused him in 1993 we just
played the clip of Tara describing what
happened
Linda Lucas came forward in just
recently in the business insider piece
and has corroborated Tara Reid's account
Linda this is your first time speaking
on television about this can you tell us
what happened in the mid-1990s how did
you know Tara and then tell us what she
told you and why you're coming forward
today well Tara was my next-door
neighbor I moved into the apartment
right next to her and we became close at
that time and we actually she told me
about it when we were having a
conversation and so you know as rich put
forth in and the article in The Business
Insider she you know I was having a
moment outside was outside and I had
just received some papers and I was
upset about them and she came over and
we were talking about about violence
because I had experienced violence
myself and she started telling me about
Joe Biden and what he had done so
basically she told me that he put his he
put her up against a wall and he put his
hand up as her skirt and he put his
fingers inside her and she was very
distraught and she was very upset and
she was crying and that's how that
conversation happened we were just
sitting on my front still in front of my
apartment and what year witnessed that
you had that conversation well it was
either 1994 or very early yeah I'm sorry
1995 or early 1996 and Linda if you
could talk about your response at the
time she told you did she tell you it
was Senator Biden who she had worked for
she did she did tell me that and you
know I really didn't pay that much
attention at the time I didn't really
care much about politics I didn't I knew
she worked for him I didn't know really
who he was much I didn't put that much
importance on it
so so but can you talk about why you've
decided to come forward now I understand
you're a Biden supporter is that right
yeah that's correct
I'm a strong lifelong Democrat and I am
abiding supporter and you know she I
didn't know about I didn't know about
all the stuff that was going on in the
news she told me about it
last month she called me and she told me
that she had decided to come forward
with it and and I said she told me about
the allegations and I said oh yes I
remember that so then she we talked
again a little over a week ago and I
volunteered to come forward and again
you know I worked so much I hadn't
really had time to to pay as much
attention as I could have and but I did
volunteer to come forward and the reason
I volunteered to come forward is just I
I feel that the truth needs to be told
and her truth needs to be told I
believed her
back then when she told me and I believe
her now and just talk about how you
measure now that she was sexually
assaulted by her boss by Senator Joe
Biden that's her allegation if you
believe her why you support him I've
always supported him and I just have to
keep supporting him now and it's a
little bit harder now after this
allegation I'm a definite anti-trump so
so I'm having a little bit of a hard
time with it so but mostly it's an
anti-trump thing and you know he when I
saw him on Morning Joe this morning and
he looks very believable too but I'm
hearing this today and I heard Tara a
long time ago telling me that so so I
I'm struggling with it
with that with with the election now
well I mean I'm not gonna vote for him
let me bring back in rich McHugh your
thoughts on how the media has covered
this story I mean ultimately the New
York Times did a piece New York magazine
Rebecca tracer did a piece of course
MSNBC is now interviewing Joe Biden
today you've had a lot of experience
with NBC and trying to bring out the
Harvey Weinstein's story first on NBC
with with Ronan Farrow but talk about
the progression of this piece I think
the media was afraid I'll just say
afraid because you know there are things
in Terris story there are some
inconsistencies there's her writings
about Russia and whatnot that that give
journalists myself including some pause
in reporting this which when you're at a
network level you weigh those things
even more carefully when the allegations
are against a you know presumptive
Democratic nominee that said I'm a
little surprised that the the fact that
the lack of coverage after more voices
corroborating voices came forward even
after Linda came forward to talk about
rich well so right now on the record is
so at the time Tara said she told her
mother who was since deceased in 2016 so
we came here from her but we did just
hear from her on Larry King she didn't
name Biden but she did say things that
that makes sense according to Tara's
story and Tara did tell us about this
before it was unearthed so we were
looking for it she said she told a
friend at the time contemporaneously
I've spoken to that friend a lot and
interviewed her and she's her story
lines up exactly I find no
inconsistencies with that story her
brother Colin Moulton has gone on the
record with with me in business and
cetera and and others and confirmed
parts of her story he says he was a
younger brother
by seven years so he don't doesn't think
he was told the full story because he
was a younger brother but he was
definitely remembers being told that you
know Joe Biden had his hand up her
inside her clothes or up her clothes
Linda who were hearing from now and
Lorraine Sanchez who also went on the
record she works she worked with Terra
from 94 through 96 and Senator Jack
O'Connell's office in California and
says by the time the Terra arrived there
she was was complaining about having
experienced sexual harassment at the
hands of her former boss in DC I asked
her I said did you experience sexual
harassment from anybody else in DC do
you have any other allegation he said no
I've only worked for four I only
experience that within in the Biden
office at the hands of Joe Biden so you
have a number of voices right there that
that and there are other people too by
the way there's the I spoke with an
intern who worked under Tara in the
Biden office and she says she doesn't
remember terracing anything about sexual
harassment or about sexual assault but
what she does confirm is that Tara was
all of a sudden in mid April 1993 taro
was four place and she was no longer her
supervisor I want him she found odd I
want to put President Trump on who was
questioned about whether he shot Joe
Biden should respond to the allegations
I don't know anything about it I don't
know exactly I think he should respond
you know it's it could be false
accusations like know all about false
accusations I've been falsely charged
numerous times so that was President
Trump who is himself been accused of
rape and sexual assault repeatedly by
dozens of women rich McHugh it's a
complicated conversation no doubt about
it this is both of these both of both
Trump and Biden now are you know
credibly accused and we're talking about
this allegation right now because it's
Joe Biden but both both need to be
discussed and Linda Linda lacasa do you
feel strongly that
Tara Reid should be believed absolutely
absolutely I believe her 100% well I
want to thank you both for being with us
Linda Lucas has come forward who
corroborates Tara Reid story says she
told her about it in the mid-1990s and I
want to thank rich McHugh who wrote this
piece and the Business Insider we will
link to that he's investigative reporter
former NBC News producer work with Ronan
Farrow on the story of Harvey Weinstein
you